Alternative: Clarify resolving implicit connections (3.1.1- alternative to #3823) (#3856)
OAI/OpenAPI-Specification: versions/3.1.1.md

When parsing an OAD, JSON or YAML objects are parsed into specific Objects (such as [Operation Objects](#operationObject), [Response Objects](#responseObject), [Reference Objects](#referenceObject), etc.) based on the parsing context.  Depending on how references are arranged, a given JSON or YAML object can be parsed in multiple different contexts:

* As a complete OpenAPI Description document
* As the Object type implied by its parent Object within the document
* As a reference target, with the Object type matching the reference source's context

If the same JSON/YAML object is parsed multiple times and the respective contexts require it to be parsed as _different_ Object types, the resulting behavior is _implementation defined_, and MAY be treated as an error if detected.  An example would be referencing an empty Schema Object under `#/components/schemas` where a Path Item Object is expected, as an empty object is valid for both types.  For maximum interoperability, it is RECOMMENDED that OpenAPI Description authors avoid such scenarios.

#### <a name="resolvingImplicitConnections"></a>Resolving Implicit Connections

> Several features of this specification require resolving a non-URI-based connection to some other part of the OpenAPI Description (OAD).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several features of this specification require resolution of non-URI-based connections to some other part of the OpenAPI Description (OAD).
``

These connections are easily resolved in single-document OADs, but the resolution process in multi-document OADs has never been spelled out, and is therefore _implementation-defined_, within the constraints described in this section.
In some cases, an unambiguous URI-based alternative is available, and OAD authors are RECOMMENDED to always use the alternative:

Source | Target | Alternative
------ | ------ | -----------
[Security Requirement Object](#securityRequirementObject) `{name}` |  [Security Scheme Object](#securitySchemeObject) name under the [Components Object](#componentsObject) | _n/a_
[Discriminator Object](#discriminatorObject) `mapping` _(implicit, or explicit name syntax)_ | [Schema Object](#schemaObject) name under the Components Object | `mapping` _(explicit URI syntax)_
[Operation Object](#operationObject) `tags` | [Tag Object](#tagObject) `name` (in the Components Object) | _n/a_
[Link Object](#linkObject) `operationId` | [Path Item Object](#pathItemObject) `operationId` | `operationRef`

> A fifth implicit connection, which involves appending the templated URL paths of the [Paths Object](#pathsObject) to the appropriate [Server Object](#serverObject)'s `url` field, is unambiguous because only the entry document's Paths Object contributes URLs to the described API.

Author: I ended up taking your suggestion of splitting the sentence and removed all commas and "which" in the first sentence as I think that is correct and then we don't need to debate complex sentence structure.

It is RECOMMENDED to consider all Operation Objects from all parsed documents when resolving any Link Object `operationId`.

> This requires ensuring that all referenced documents have been parsed prior to determining an `operationId` to be unresolvable.

Reviewer: as a native speaker, I don't know enough rules to argue for or against it.  haha

I think this may sound better

The implicit connections in the Security Requirement Object and Discriminator Object rely on the _component name_, which is the property name holding the component in the appropriate typed sub-object of the Components Object.
For example, the component name of the Schema Object at `#/components/schemas/Foo` is `Foo`.
The implicit connection of tags in the Operation Object use the `name` field of Tag Objects, which (like the Components Object) are found under the root OpenAPI Object.
This means that resolving component names and tag names both depend on starting from the correct OpenAPI Object.

> For resolving component and tag name connections from a referenced (non-entry) document, it is RECOMMENDED that tools resolve from the entry document, rather than the current document.

Reviewer: i'm ok with _that_ in this one.  I can't point to any hard, fast grammar rule for it's use or lack there of.

This allows Security Scheme Objects and Tag Objects to be defined with the API's deployment information (the top-level Server Objects), and treated as an interface for referenced documents to access.

The interface approach can also work for Discriminator Objects and Schema Objects, but it is also possible to keep the Discriminator Object's behavior within a single document using the relative URI-reference syntax of `mapping`.

> There currently are no URI-based alternatives for the Security Requirement Object or for the Operation Object's `tags` field.

Author: Hmm... I wonder how to best make the intent more clear here.

In this sentence, the structure is making a distinction between the Security Requirement Object (as a whole, or more precisely all top-level keys in the Object) and the specific `tags` field in the Operation Object.  Your rewrite reads to me like both the Operation Object and Security Requirement Object have `tags` fields, which is not the case.

> There currently are no URI-based alternatives for the Security Requirement Object or for the Operation Object's `tags` field.

Reviewer: you're right, that does seem to infer both of them have the `tags`.   I added a `the` in there.. Not sure if that is sufficient.

> There currently are no URI-based alternatives for the Security Requirement Object or for the Operation Object's `tags` field.

Author: I think it needs the repeated "for."  I did [remove the "currently"](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/pull/3856/files#diff-b92507e7acda65ae00a02236c555cefc68b6fca4661077b84c2fb9ab150e5e17R225-R226), though.

> There are not currently URI-based alternatives for the Security Requirement Object or for the Operation Object's `tags` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There currently are no URI-based alternatives for the Security Requirement Object or for the Operation Object's `tags` field.
```

These limitations are expected to be addressed in a future release.

> Note that no aspect of implicit connection resolution changes how [URIs are resolved](#relativeReferencesURI), or restricts their possible targets.

Author: I count 14 instances of "Note that" in the spec and two instances of "Note:", one of which is a very specific usage (an italicized note inside of a field definition set off by a blank line, which is not done anywhere else in the spec AFAIK).  I'd rather stick with "Note that" (and maybe put this in the [style guide](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/issues/3785)?

> Note that no aspect of implicit connection resolution changes how [URIs are resolved](#relativeReferencesURI), or restricts their possible targets.

Reviewer: i'm ok with _that_  :D

* As a complete OpenAPI Description document
* As the Object type implied by its parent Object within the document
* As a reference target, with the Object type matching the reference source's context

If the same JSON/YAML object is parsed multiple times and the respective contexts require it to be parsed as _different_ Object types, the resulting behavior is _implementation defined_, and MAY be treated as an error if detected.  An example would be referencing an empty Schema Object under `#/components/schemas` where a Path Item Object is expected, as an empty object is valid for both types.  For maximum interoperability, it is RECOMMENDED that OpenAPI Description authors avoid such scenarios.

#### <a name="resolvingImplicitConnections"></a>Resolving Implicit Connections

Several features of this specification require resolution of non-URI-based connections to some other part of the OpenAPI Description (OAD).

> ``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - read:pets
```

###### Security Requirement in a Referenced Document

See [Resolving Implicit Connections](#resolvingImplicitConnections) for more information.

> First, our entry document is where parsing begins. It defines the `MySecurity` security scheme to be JWT-based, and it defines on Path Item as a reference to a component in another document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, our entry document is where parsing begins. It defines the `MySecurity` security scheme to be JWT-based, and it defines a Path Item as a reference to a component in another document:
```

```HTTP
GET /api/description/openapi HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Accept: application/openapi+json
```

```json
"components": {
  "securitySchemes": {
    "MySecurity": {
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "bearer",
      "bearerFormat": "JWT"
    }
  }
},
"paths": {
  "/foo": {
    "$ref": "other#/components/pathItems/Foo"
  }
}
```

```HTTP
GET /api/description/openapi HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Accept: application/openapi+yaml
```

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    MySecurity:
      type: http
      scheme: bearer
      bearerFormat: JWT
paths:
  /foo:
    $ref: "other#/components/pathItems/Foo"
```

> Next, we have our referenced document, `other`. The fact that we don't use file extensions gives the client the flexibility to choose an acceptable format on a resource-by-resource basis, assuming both representations are available:

Reviewer 3: @handrews This is good.

> Next, we have our referenced document, `other`, that we presumably request in the same format we requested for the entry document.  But the fact that we don't use file extensions gives the client the flexibilty to choose on a resource-by-resource basis, assuming both representations are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we have our referenced document, `other`. The fact that we don't use file extensions gives the client the flexibility to choose an acceptable format on a resource-by-resource basis, assuming both representations are available:
```

```HTTP
GET /api/description/other HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Accept: application/openapi+json
```

```json
"components": {
  "securitySchemes": {
    "MySecurity": {
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "basic"
    }
  },
  "pathItems": {
    "Foo": {
      "get": {
        "security": [
          "MySecurity": []
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```HTTP
GET /api/description/other HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Accept: application/openapi+yaml
```

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    MySecurity:
      type: http
      scheme: basic
  pathItems:
    Foo:
      get:
        security:
        - MySecurity: []
```

> In this `other` document, the reference path item has a Security Requirement for the Security Scheme "MySecurity".  But there is a Security Scheme by that name in the `other` document as well.  As discussed in [Resolving Implicit Connections](#resolvingImplicitConnections), which "MySecurity" gets used is [implementation-defined](#undefinedAndImplementationDefinedBehavior).  However, as also documented in that section, it is RECOMMENDED that tools resolve component names from the [entry document](#documentStructure).  As with all implementation-defined behavior, it is important to check tool documentation to determine which behavior is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `other` document, the referenced path item has a Security Requirement for a Security Scheme, `MySecurity`. The same Security Scheme exists in the original entry document. As outlined in [Resolving Implicit Connections](#resolvingImplicitConnections), `MySecurity` is resolved with an [implementation-defined behavior](#undefinedAndImplementationDefinedBehavior). However, documented in that section, it is RECOMMENDED that tools resolve component names from the [entry document](#documentStructure). As with all implementation-defined behavior, it is important to check tool documentation to determine which behavior is supported.
```

    - read:pets
```

> ###### Security Requirement in a Referenced Document

Reviewer 2: Why rely on the implicit anchor generated by Github here?

Author: @ralfhandl I thought it was because you did that in one of the suggestions I committed to the another PR!  I hadn't realized we could just do that until I saw _someone_ do it.  Maybe that wasn't you?  The plan is to switch them all over before releasing anyway because the other ones won't work anymore.

See [Resolving Implicit Connections](#resolvingImplicitConnections) for more information.

Entry document `openapi.yaml`:

```YAML
components:
  securitySchemes:
    MySecurity:
      type: http
      scheme: bearer
      bearerFormat: JWT
paths:
  /foo:
    $ref: "other.yaml#/components/pathItems/Foo"
```

Referenced document `other.yaml`:

```YAML
components:
  securitySchemes:
    MySecurity:
      type: http
      scheme: basic
  pathItems:
    Foo:
      get:
        security:

>         - MySecurity: []

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          MySecurity: []
```
Pattern field, not array item

Author: @ralfhandl array of objects with pattern field, not object with pattern field :-)
<img width="834" alt="Screen Shot 2024-06-11 at 8 01 14 AM" src="https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/assets/2358015/3e286b8b-f43f-45f3-9285-390b0e69b6a5">

      bearerFormat: JWT
paths:
  /foo:
    $ref: "other#/components/pathItems/Foo"
```

Next, we have our referenced document, `other`, that we presumably request in the same format we requested for the entry document.  But the fact that we don't use file extensions gives the client the flexibilty to choose on a resource-by-resource basis, assuming both representations are available:

```HTTP
GET /api/description/other HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
Accept: application/openapi+json
```

```json
"components": {
  "securitySchemes": {
    "MySecurity": {
      "type": "http",
      "scheme": "basic"
    }
  },
  "pathItems": {
    "Foo": {
      "get": {
        "security": [

>          "MySecurity": []

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          "MySecurity": []
```
